README.md, before:

# whodunnit
Using dbt to perform analytics on SQL MURDER MYSTERY (https://mystery.knightlab.com)data.

## Requirements
* dbt-core, dbt-postgres, pgadmin
* Docker Compose

## Start the database container
```bash
docker compose up postgres pgadmin
```
This will create a postgres and pgadmin container from the image defined in the docker-compose.yaml file.

## Create a virtual environment (Windows)
```bash
pip install virtualenv
```
This will install the virtual environment package.
Now while in the project directory use the following command:
```bash
virtualenv env
```
All that is left is activating the environment.
```bash
\env\Scripts\activate.bat
```

## Create a virtual environment (Linux and MacOS)
Open terminal and install the package.
```bash
pip3 install virtualenv
```
To create the environment go to the project directory and type:
```bash
virtualenv venv
```
And to activate it use this command.
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

## Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Make sure you are using a virtual environment for this. 

Now move inside the demo folder.
```bash
cd demo
```


## Install dbt packages 
Packages stated at the <b>packages.yml</b> file must be installed in order to use predefined functions, which in dbt are called <i>macros</i>.
Once they are installed, you are then able to call them via {{_}} Jinja tags. These type of functions can be called inside sql queries or independently. 

E.g.: {{ macro_name(<optional_parameters>)}}

Refer to https://hub.getdbt.com/ to check out packages and their usage.
```bash
dbt deps
```

### Resources:
- Learn more about dbt [in the docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](https://community.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices

Commit message:

adding post hook index and etl time stamp to models

README.md, after:

# whodunnit
Using dbt to perform analytics on SQL MURDER MYSTERY (https://mystery.knightlab.com)data.

## Requirements
* dbt-core, dbt-postgres, pgadmin, pgloader
* Docker Compose

## Start the database container
```bash
docker compose up postgres pgadmin
```
This will create a postgres and pgadmin container from the image defined in the docker-compose.yaml file.

## Create a virtual environment (Windows)
```bash
pip install virtualenv
```
This will install the virtual environment package.
Now while in the project directory use the following command:
```bash
virtualenv env
```
All that is left is activating the environment.
```bash
\env\Scripts\activate.bat
```

## Create a virtual environment (Linux and MacOS)
Open terminal and install the package.
```bash
pip3 install virtualenv
```
To create the environment go to the project directory and type:
```bash
virtualenv venv
```
And to activate it use this command.
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

## Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Make sure you are using a virtual environment for this. 

Now move inside the models folder.
```bash
cd models

set up a source file for the variables on dbt cli i.e. create a bash script called set_env_var.sh and then source set_env_var.sh in your terminal.

An example of the bash script would be:

export DBT_ENV_SECRET_USER=xxxxxxx
export DBT_ENV_SECRET_PASSWORD=xxxxxx
```


## Install dbt packages 
Packages stated at the <b>packages.yml</b> file must be installed in order to use predefined functions, which in dbt are called <i>macros</i>.
Once they are installed, you are then able to call them via {{_}} Jinja tags. These type of functions can be called inside sql queries or independently. 

E.g.: {{ macro_name(<optional_parameters>)}}

Refer to https://hub.getdbt.com/ to check out packages and their usage.
```bash
dbt deps
```

### Resources:
- Learn more about dbt [in the docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](https://community.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices
